One of the most significant innovations
in digital signal processing and
computation is how to connect
the real world signals,
which are all in analog,
to the digital world of computers.
And this is credited to Harry Nyquist,
who came up with the sampling theorem
at the AT&T Bell labs in 1928.
This is a very simple way of
showing the Nyquist Theorem.
Even though Nyquist described
this original invention as
pulsars in the telegraph perspective,
I want to describe this in
terms of the analog signals.
So the channel bandwidth, think of it
as the signal bandwidth, for example,
speech at four kilohertz.
And essentially, what Nyquist theorem says
is, if the signal is limited to bandwidth,
w, say four kilohertz, you need to
have at least eight kilohertz samples.
For the the maximum frequency, you need
two samples for every frequency point.
And these samples need to be
spaced at equal intervals,
t milliseconds apart,
where t is one over two by w.
And what is meant was if you did this,
you could completely recover
the information that was there
in the analog domain
in the digital domain.
This worked, not just for audio speech
signals that are in one dimension,
it works for two dimensional signals and
multi-dimensional signals.
In this, if you have the stripes
on the zebra, one centimeter take,
then you need to have at least one
sample point every one centimeter.
Otherwise you would miss some
of the black or white stripes.
So, AT&T was most interested in
speech signals at that time.
And, speech has a spectrum from
50 hertz to about four kilohertz.
And the telephony bandwidth
itself was from 300 to 3.3 KHz.
And what this meant was you could sample
each line, each voice call,
at eight kilohertz per sample.
And for each sample you need about
12 bits per sample to represent
faithfully, so that you would have top
quality speech in the digital domain.
If had more complex signals,
let's say audio signals,
then you need much larger bandwidth
in order to get to CD quality.
For FM quality, you need about 15 kHz,
and then for CD, you need 20 kHz.
You also need many,
many more bits per sample,
because the music content
has much wider dynamic range
than the range of signals that we
can produce when we are speaking.
For speech signals, it's roughly 70 dB.
But for audio,
it's much bigger dynamic range.
And, this is how Nyquist Theorem was
used for going from analog
domain into the digital domain.
And, this gave the AT&T telephoning
network, and lots of other disciplines,
a significant boost in how data
is processed and interpreted.